Azure App Services contains Logic apps for orchestration of APIs and data, Mobile Apps that work as the backend for your mobile applications. 
API apps that enable you to expose APIs, Azure functions, which enable you to intercept events, process them, and output their data somewhere. Think of them as serverless pieces of code. And Web Apps, the focus of this module. Web Apps enable you to host web applications with ease and without having to worry about the complexities of infrastructure plumbing.
<br/><br/>
So what are web apps?
Let me tell you about the way most people work with web applications when they aren't using web apps. I call this Traditional Webhosting. Suppose I have built an application; this could be anything, like an ASP.NET forums or MVC application, or a PHP, or Java, or Python app. In traditional webhosting, I would deploy the app tool webserver, like IIS or Tomcat, which runs on a physical or virtual server. As a developer, I need the webserver to be configured correctly so that my app can run on it. This means configuring application pools, setting security permissions and more.<br/>
My friends from infrastructure, or dev ops, would have to set up the server and the operating system on it, which might be Windows server or Linux, or something like that. They'd also have to make sure that the server has the right security settings, like firewall settings and antivirus software, and they would have to do other things, like expose the server to the internet and make sure that the latest operating system updates and patches are applied. Basically, they would have to keep the server running and make sure that it's secured. That's a whole lot of work to get my web application running.
<br/><br/>
Alternatively, I could host my application with Azure Web Apps. In this model, I deploy my application to an Azure Web App, which is basically an abstraction of a webserver, like IIS or Tomcat. As a developer, I only have to provision a web app in Azure, deploy my application to it and that's it. The Azure platform takes care of all the <b>infrastructural plumbing</b> through the Azure Service Fabric. This takes care of allocating VMs to the Web App. Usually, there's just one VM assigned per Web App, but this is dependent on the hosting tier and scaling options that you choose.
<br/><br/>
The point is that this really doesn't matter, because service fabric magically keeps your web app running. In hosting web apps, we do not have to worry about things like operating system updates, firewall settings, and machine configuration. This is all taken care of automatically. It's really a web server as a service.
<br/><br/>
As a developer, using traditional web hosting, typically we are responsible for our web application and for configuring the web server. Sometimes, we even have responsibility over the server itself, including operating system and everything that goes with it. When hosting with web apps, we are typically only responsible for our application on the web app. This enables us to focus on delivering business value to our application, instead of worrying about the infrastructural plumbing.
<br/><br/>
Let's talk about some features of Azure Web Apps. We can use Azure Web Apps to host web applications. A lot of people don't know this, but you can host all sorts of web applications in Azure Web Apps. The Azure platform makes sure that the web app is highly available. By default, they promise that your web app is up and running 99.95 percent of the time. It's pretty tough to beat that when you're hosting through the traditional webhosting model.
<br/><br/>
You can attach custom domains to the web app, as well as SSL certificates. You can use deployment slots with web apps. This enables you to have a staging or a test environment that you can use to do preproduction testing on. It's very easy to set up continuous deployment with Azure web apps. Out of the box you can connect Visual Studio Team Services, GIT, Dropbox, and other source-control providers to it, which, amongst other things, enables you to push code to your web app after you check it in.
<br/><br/>
You can scale web apps manually or automatically. Using this, you can make sure that your web application keeps running, even when there are a lot of users using it. You can configure authentication and authorization out-of-the-box with some default providers, like Azure Active Directory. You can load balance web apps in various ways using <b>traffic management</b>. If that's not all, you can also easily configure access to on-premises data to hybrid connections, which enables your web app to communicate with on-premises data, like a database for instance. Let's see this in action. I'm going to show you the most basic functionality of a web app, the ability to create a new web app and deploy your web application to it. I'm going to do all of this from Visual Studio 2015.
<br/><br/>
